

Ext Day: (Spring, Afternoon, Present) Yimeng and Qingnian Sit in quiet reflection. Seated on the wooden steps of the temple. Their garments tickled by the gentle breeze that whispers around them. FangYimeng’s HanFu style clothing glistens White and Gold in the warm Spring Sun. The gentle breeze persists.
QingNian: Gentle smile I remember when, I didn’t pass the exam.*- face lowers*at the time, I was so ashamed - 
Yimeng raises her hand to comfort the young man as he speaks. Her hand pulls back strands of his coarse dark hair. A single petal lands on the black fabric of his garment in perfect contrast. She brushes it way.
Qingnian: She knew that there wasn’t a single thing she could say, no advice that would get me out of my head. But she tried 
We follow Qingnian’s descending gaze, his eyes tracking petals flowing with the gentle wind. 
Three children run through the flowers, two laughing in hilarity the youngest one runs in fear, not knowing why these petals move on their own. The steady breeze flowed pushing the hairs lightly away from the young man’s downcast face. With his red eyes, he looks up.
Ext Day: Autumn Morning 7 years past. Seated in the same position, Enlian consoles young Qingnian. He sits distraught following the bitter failure of his examinations. 
Enlian: 
	 (谋事在人，成事在天 (尽人事，听天命 )
	Móu shì zài rén, chéng shì zài tiān (jǐn rén shì, tīng tiān mìng) 
“The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the Heavens.”
Qingnian: A-yiii, please*he wines*, I failed and so I am a failure, its simple
Qingnian looks away trying to hide his face.
Qingnian: I- I failed, all that time, and now I am delayed another year. Heaven can’t change that
Enlian: Its funny, you know your Uncle was delayed a year as wel…
Qingnian Responds in silence
He told me …只问耕耘，不问收获  “One who sows cannot always control the harvest”
And yet, Doesn't the farmer not return for next season? Does he call himself a failure, or try to learn the land?
She reaches out to touch strands of his coarse dark hair. He gently pushes her hand away 
Enlian Defiant rises reaching her hand out to her nephew
Enlian: We can only decide what to do next. Come’on get up, we have work to do

Ext Day: Spring, Afternoon.Present Temple Grounds
A welcome breeze carries more petals from the tree, Yimeng is surrounded by them, hugged by a swirl of petals as they push away
Yimeng: Cherry blossom,,,, I see her in everything now. I just wish…
Qingnian rises interrupting her sentence..reaching out his hand to Yimeng
Yimeng: Good timing, you can never see me cry kid..
Qingnian: It’s tea time any way


When your actions don’t breed the outcome you wanted, and your love turns to hate
Int.Teahouse Spring Sunset:  Yimeng looks out the window. The children play a game. Another petal lands beside Yimeng’s Teacup
Yimeng: It’s funny…. She carried profound wisdom. But for some reason,  I never saw it. I just.. 
I could never see her that way. 
Qingnian: All those things. The things that mattered to me so deeply. Just seem so small…with where we are now
Yimeng: I still remember the day, when things changed between her and I, I remember it so well. She had brought me a letter. But I didn't care, I didn’t even read it. I even tried to burn it in front of her,,
As she speaks we see, with no sound but gentle susuration, the moment Enlian grabbed her letter from Yimeng's hand, the flames still burning as she frantically tried to wave it off. Defeated, Enlian falls to her knees, Her dress splayed, surrounding her on the ground. Tears welling in her eyes. Yimeng Standing above her. 
Qingnian: The burn mark on her hand?, she never let it slip
We see Qingnian’s hand, gently caressing the warm cup. In a flashback he looks across from him at enlian, she smiles and covers her hand.
Yimeng: ,,, to think it was all over Xuan
Qingnian: .Uncle Xuan?
Yimeng looks down at the cup between her hands, the steam rising into her face.
Yimneng: …..That same night I went back to her, I tried to find her again. It was the same night she vanished. There was so much I wanted to say. 
We see in a flashback Yimeng looking through the light fabric of the wall, where Enlian had sat before. 
Qingnian: Dad used to tell me about that, he just never knew much.
Yimenng Still looking down. I don’t know much either, all I know is that she was never the same. We were never the same 

Int.Night 20 years prior. the secret study.
Context.
Yimeng and Enlian- Spring time in Chang An– Secretly stealing study material, poetry text, calligraphy transcripts. They secretly study for all sections of the Imperial exams, knowing they will never sit for it themselves. Yimeng Tells Enlian of a potential secret admirer amongst the exam prep cohort. Enlian Being Enlian Confronts Zhang XuanHui who was studying at the time, Amused XuanHui looks between Yimeng and Enlian. Enlian And Xuan Hui get to know each other as exams roll around, he is astonished at how much Enlian knows
Yimeng in support of the relationship accidentally, spills the beans on their studying and why they know so much.  XuanHui promises he won’t tell on the condition that they stop, because he is liable if they get caught. Enlian doesn’t listen, insists it is their right to learn. Xuanhui is drafted to defend the boarder region. Xuan Hui returns home early and is tended to by Yimeng, because Enlian got Caught trying to access the Archives. Xuan Hui is Incensed, Yimeng defends Enlian and tells Xuanhui she cares for him but Knows his heart is with Enlian, In an awkward exchange, XuanHui Hesitates, and immediately goes to advocates for Enlian in his injured state. She is pardoned by his testimony, He struggles to forgive her as this jeopardizes his reputation and he is chance at the exams. Time passess, and Xuanhui Studies alone, he drowns his sorrows, knowing his friends are in battle and he is at home. Yimeng, knowing he is alone and downcast, confronts him in the bar to try and help. He is too drunk to carry himself and she helps him home. As they arrive at his home,  Enlian who wanted to try this night to confront Xuanhui himself see’s them together. A drunken Xuanhui Asks if Yimeng Really meant what she had said those nights ago. She looks up into his eyes trying to fight it all, knowing he is drunk, they look at each other. Just then Yimeng Notices A shadow move, had it been her imagination? The next day Enlian sits with Yimeng. She is cold, Yimeng can tell. Yimeng tries to confront her, saying she knows she saw her and Xuanhui but there was nothing that happened. EnLain Doesn’t say anything, Its fine it doesn’t matter, Enlian Says, I just need a moment. Days go by and Yimeng Tries once more with Enlian. But Enlian says Yimeng doesn’t understand, she is terse, Enlian says she still needs time. Yimeng Sits alone, looking up at the moon she cries. A month passes and Enlian bumps into Yimeng in the court yard. Enlian has a paper in her hand. 

Ext Night. Autumn. Enlian and Yimeng stand in the cool night, lit up by the moon and the lanterns in the beautiful garden. The lanterns which gently accentuate the beauty of the garden’s white flowers and careful and intentional curation.
Enlian: Hey, I… I just wanted to say..
Yimeng: If you think I owe you some sort of apology I..
Enlian: Yimeng, I’m sorry, It isn’t right that I have been so distant..
Yimeng Stares at Enlian
Yimeng: you didn’t speak to me for months….I even covered for you when you..
Yimeng pauses. Loosing control of her voice, she stammers through her words.
Enlian holds a paper in front of her. For Yimeng
Yimeng: Why can’t you just talk to me?
Enlain: They are saying Xuan can’t take the exams this year... Because you,, 
Enlain stops herself, 
Yimeng: Because I!?!? BECAUSE I did WHAT?
Enlian pauses. 
Enlain: Thats not what I mean, here, please,,,I wrote you this because I ,
Yimeng grabs the letter and takes off toward the garden, Enlian runs after her 
Enlian: Meng, wait, just..please
They run through the courtyard and halls, Yimeng takes them to their secret study room, the once store room they had emptied 3 years before. Yimeng tries to set the letter alight using a lantern flame. Just as Enlian Catches up. She grabs the letter,  the flames still burning as she frantically tries to wave it off. Defeated, Enlian falls to her knees, Her dress splayed, surrounding her on the ground. Tears welling in her eyes. Yimeng Standing above her. 
Yimeng: WHY CANT YOU JUST TALK!! Just tell me what you are thinking. Instead of being so dramatic 
Enlian: I didnt know how to say, I just.. 
Yimeng: What! Is it!! 
Enlian: Meng, in this life, I see  you as my sister, I ,,,I love Xuani…but I love you too… you are and will always be the closest person.. 
Yimeng: you, don’t even know what that means,
Enlian stands to her feet, using the table beside here, the wood creeks. She pauses, and breaths a deep sigh..
Enlian:....  Meng*between tears, and broken voice
Yimeng: Tell me what love could possibly mean to you!!
Enlian: I, I dont..
Yimeng: You don’t know what that means because all you can think abut is yourself. You couldn’t POSSIBLY understand what you did to me. It’s been MONTHS Lian, Who knows what would have happened if Xuan didn’t come back? what would they have done to you? And now that he is back, you tell me he can’t take the exams, and you try to say Its my FAULT.?
Enlian: Fine,,, Ill talk!!Why did you stop studying with me! I only got caught because nobody was there to cover for me. I was alone….
Yimeng: You knew what you were doing. You didn’t listen to Xuan, you just care about yourself.. thats it, its as simple as that….
The two sit in silence. There is a knock on the door, the guard accompanied by curious students and others, checking to see what had happened.
Yimeng: its ok, I was leaving anyway

Int.Teahouse Spring Sunset 20 years later:  
Yimeng: You are right kid. Even as I think about it, it all seems so small. If I had just been patient enough, maybe I could have known more, understood more. 
QingNian reveals a small scroll on his person papers, a look of familiarity crosses Yimengs face. the  distinct burn marks confirm her suspicions. 
QingNian: I thought you might have wanted this…. They are liquidating the Zhang Estate, with no next of kin they were going to take everything. So My Father stepped in. 
Yimeng:… old friend…my sister…Yimeng tries to hold in tears
Yimeng speaks to the letter… and looks up out the window, the kids still playing. 
Yimeng:… after all this time?…
She squeezes the scroll tightly with both hands, bowing her head to the table. Holding it above her head. With gritted teeth she can no longer hold in her tears. Qingnian places a hand on hers, he looks outside
Qingnian: They are looking for someone to lead the academy……*he pauses as the wind sways the tree outside the window…. Aunt Lian, would have said something really dumb or really clever. The timing was always perfect
Yimeng Rises, Her eyes meeting Qingnians. She looks out the window.  Another Petal lands on the windowsill.
Qingnian: I love you too, she whispers to it 
