
Episode 1 -  Out the Mud 
(Synopsis Draft)
Written by:
XieBoEn

Amidst a flashforward to the Trial of Enlian, Yimeng sits in quiet and somber reflection. She writes of her friend, wondering if things could have gone any other way. We see flashes back and forth between the past and the present: moments shared between the friends, moments where Enlian shone as she gracefully led her private academy, her carefully selected cohort of talented individuals. Reflections of warmth and promise emerge as Yimeng marvels at the world she had once known, and what could have been, what could have remained. Her thoughts are interrupted by the cold reality of her memory of the Trial.
Ext. Day. At the Trial of Enlian, Yimeng stands as the accuser, Enlian the accused. Amidst the proclamation of Enlian's guilt for a range of alleged criminal actions, Enlian, true to her courage, declares aloud, shouting for all to witness the love she still has for her friend, her once sister. Yimeng holds young Didi( (Wu Zetian)) in her embrace, shielding her from view. They stand watching what feels unimaginable, feeling little control as they descend toward an inevitable outcome.
Enlian Writing: "What does the world look like from your perspective? When you collect your days and bundle them together, which side of history are you on?"


The story begins with Didi (弟弟)- 奴婢 (Núbì), beneath even the 賤民 (Jiànmín), , the nameless child. Didi was the moniker given to her because of her androgynous features. At nine years old, she belongs to the lowest caste, the debased. She has been given by her family With the hopes of giving her a better life. We follow the child as she grows, witnessing moments from her childhood that reflect this dichotomy: the tension between the beautiful and the unpleasant. The cold, dark rooms. The warmth of friendships that came and went. The coldness of young children subjected to the same life. Through it all, the child held her ground in silence, waiting for something to change, though never knowing whether it ever would. She would often see a distant world of vibrance and celebration, watching the people in the bustling marketplace. She sees Enlian and her students from afar. 



Enter Enlian, the vibrant contrast, a person rare, with a heart rarer still. The widowed wife of an esteemed official, now a teacher, she is relied upon by many for her knowledge and subtle influence. We see that she occupies an entirely different reality. She is wealthy and independent, working closely with the Imperial Court to refine and select individuals of promise for the Emperor's private academy of poets, artists, and thinkers.
We follow Enlian and Yimeng as they conduct their unique daily affairs. Through their vibrant reality, we see their unique cohort of students and are introduced to the likes of Gongshun, Liu Fan and Liu Fu, the twin sisters, and Jie Jie, the eldest of the group. The group has arrived in Chang'an and is about to do what they do best: prove they are the best at what each of them does. Gongshun is given the spotlight, performing the Guzheng effortlessly. Hui Xia dances, with Zhang Qingnian looking on. Enlian wonders if her nephew has taken a liking to her. Her Nephew returning from the front lines is at an age ripe for considering taking a wife. Enlian Pulls him aside to ask if he is looking for a wife, in an awkward exchange she changes the subject. Asking how the campaign was.

With grace, Jie Jie offers an eloquent recitation. She is in the running to be considered for an upcoming grand competition.
Amidst the usual performances in and around the imperial courts, Yimeng and Enlian come across a unique moment. While passing a tent, they catch a glimpse of  the tribute foreigner (nameless at the time- to be named YueHua). Enlian immediately gasps at the sight of the dark-skinned woman, she intends to turn back. Yimeng grabs her by the arm, leading her away, not wanting to meddle with the Emperor's Turkic tribute(朝貢, chaogong ). And the Official processes still to commense
They arrive at the Grand Imperial Grounds in Chang'an to honor the Emperor himself, a grand hall with hundreds of subjects in attendance,. Generals eat and enjoy the spoils of a Turkic defeat. Watching Honglu Si (鴻臚寺)  evaluating the the Tribure offerings brought in recognition of the defeat including the young black women “Yue Hua”

As the Celbrations proceed with all subjects, consorts and candidates lining each side, the elite have come to observe and enjoy all that can be enjoyed in such a time as this. All the while Enlian and Yimeng watch when suddenly, the emperor himself acknowledges their attendance. He mentions that he has heard of the fruitfulness of the members of his private academy under EnLian’s care. That there is word their talent surpasses what he has seen even within his own courts. He bids them farewell with the promise of allocating more resources to the private academy. As they prepare to leave and Yimeng begins to walk away, Enlian stays behind, much to Yimeng's Dismay.
"Your Highness, if I may, I would like to request an addition to our cohort."
Yimeng tenses as she wonders what her friend is playing at. It is in this moment that Enlian nominates the tributary Gift, Yue Hua, for admission into the private academy. A tense back-and-forth ensues between the Widow and the Emperor—an exchange that would not be acceptable, except in the context of her husband's honor. Qingnian, who is in attendance, rises to her defense. In a moment of deep tension, the Emperor sees the earnest conviction of the Zhang family represented. He allows that the Tribute be admitted for the course of one year. He himself is curious as to what might come of her time there.
The next day, it becomes clear that this will be a reputational undertaking, with Yimeng expressing her concern for the lack of intentionality behind Enlian's decisions—that she only gets away with these things because of who her husband was, and that if she really cared for him, she would select people who actually deserve to be part of their group. Just as she mentions this, Enlian notices that they are standing in the midst of a tax and tribute collection venue. Before them are the families and individuals with debts to the Emperor, some of whom have come to offer their children in hopes of giving them a better life, in hopes of settling their debts. Enlian notices young Didi and freezes, as though she has seen a ghost from the past. She watches the young girl being led by people who hardly look like family. "Stop—where are you taking her?" The world seems to only involve the two of them, Enlian and the young girl, as they look at each other.
Enlian insists on taking the child under her personal wing. Yimeng objects but cannot compete with Enlian's stubborn resolve. The child will be hers.

“You are right, this is what he would have wanted”- Enlian
Enlian and Yue Hua, the tributary foreigner, sit together. Enlian offers her food. She doesn't eat. She doesn't speak. She doesn't respond. The dark-skinned woman is quiet and reserved, unkempt yet vibrant and glowing, as though she had been cosmetically prepped for their engagement. Enlian stares at the woman, intrigued. She asks questions; where she is from, what her name is, all met with silence. Perhaps she doesn't understand. After the awkward sit down, they all make their way to the convoy, to begin their journey outside of Chang'an.
As Yimeng and Enlian say their farewells, Enlian notices the child Didi is not in the carriages. She searches around frantically, checking each carriage. Yimeng tells Enlian that she canceled Enlian's offer for adoption, that the child has been sold to others. Yimeng consoles her friend, saying there wouldn't have been enough; it is better this way. Without saying a word, Enlian runs back toward the imperial grounds. Her nephew, Qingnian, who arrived for farewells, starts after her. It must have been pure luck that as she rounded the corner, she saw the young girl among a group seated outside the palace, all about to be loaded for transport.
In that moment, time seemed to slow as Enlian ran through the muddy grounds. The handlers care little for empathy, taking the child with them. Enlian feels she won't make it in time. She yells for the child. Arriving, she attempts to pry her from the cold, hardened hands of her handlers. Didi drops into the mud. Among the handlers is a woman who seems eager to take the child far from where they are. Just then, Qingnian arrives, helping to separate his aunt from the rough handlers. He stands as Enlian crouches to the level of the child on the muddy ground. She sees that Didi is looking at an object, a broken jade-and-gold comb. Enlian goes to retrieve it and picks the child up; they walk back toward the convoy.
Enlian walks past Yimeng, her attention on the girl. Yimeng comes to her, telling her she has made a mistake, that this commotion will make its way back to the Emperor, that the sanctity of their academy and its elite standing are directly threatened by what Enlian has done, first with the tributary foreigner and now with this.
Enlian ignores her friend. Qingnian watches the two of them. A muddied Enlian lifts the child into her carriage and steps in after her. We see Yue Hua peering out from behind her carriage curtains, curious about what she has just witnessed, wondering what is to come next.
As the Carriages start, Didi fiddles with the muddied comb.
Enlian watches Yimeng as the carriages pull away from the imperial grounds at Chang'an.
